And the previous lessons what we did was to look at densely.
And we looked at a regression based problem.
So in this lesson we're going to step aside and look at a classification problem and add a few new concepts
onto it.
So essentially we're going to cover we're really cover regression.
So in this lesson we're going to cover classification.
We've talked about another type of layer or method called flattening in the previous lesson we talked
about a dense layer.
We'll also talk about what's called an activation function value as well as soft Max will cover regularization
method called dropout.
And while we would do it.
And finally training and testing as a concept.
But we won't actually use it or looked at it in this lesson.
But these are the basic concepts that were talked about.
We will highlight as well.
I want to just talk a little bit about the purpose of flattening in the data sets that we're going to
be looking at it's core amnesty data set.
It's provided and created by the queen.
And you can actually follow this link along.
It is core amnesty database is prepared as I mentioned by Yann McKeown as you basically have sixty thousand
examples and ten thousand examples.
And it's what it's called handwritten digits from 0 1 to all the way to 9.
And it has a corresponding corresponding label to go with it as well.
It has the image of the handwriting or the digits as well as the label itself.
So these are all the different tests and that people must perform.
You can also find this in cargo and we just go there.
All right digits recognize it's very famous it's one that people use to actually used to be the Hello
well nowadays is pretty much the the baseline for people to actually understand how it works anyway.
So this is the digit recognize.
So this is a good place to X to get started led you to read you read a little bit more about this and
I'll come back to the actual color code itself right.
So these are the concert we're going to cover so let's get started.
For a start we will usually as we always do import the libraries the next part is that we do need to
import the data.
The good thing is that the data is provided in the carer's data sets as on the tensor floor carers data
sets amnesty.
We just need to import that by loading the data and then the data is being sorted into training set
as well as to test it.
Just to give you a little bit more metadata about these data sets The X train has 60000 in terms of
shapes.
There's 28 by 28.
These are the features as you can see these are the X train.
These are the features in the previous problem that were looked at.
We only had one feature the one feature was the flow data point that we provide whereby for this it's
pixel we have 28 by 28 meaning 28 pixel high by 28 pixel y.
So if you might apply that out this 784.
So this is the actual shape of the data that we have for both the x train Expo as the X test for the
Y train because it's only just label 0 1 2 3 or the way to 9.
So this why it does not have a dimension of the actual shape itself is actually one.
And likewise for the test as well.
So if you look at the unique value for y train in white as is zero or the way to nine as I mentioned
right.
The next part is just to let you see what does the image look like.
The X strain here is we're looking at the first data point on the train so you can see that this shape
what looks like a five.
And if you want to verify that you look at the corresponding label provide the index which is 0 as well.
If you print that out and it will show you at the actual label is 5 indeed.
The one thing that we do need to do is do what's called data preparation because our data come in the
form of unsigned integer of 8.
We do want in float.
So what we do is actually we add because the unsigned comes in the 0 2 5 5 it is in grayscale.
So we do need to combat it to float so of between 0 and 1 by dividing by 250 5.0 which is a float it
forces the whole answer to become a float.
OK
yep or you run there.
So the first step that we do is that we flatten the pixel itself the pixel and Eminem's come in the
form of 28 by 28 28 high end 28 wide.
So what we do is that we converted from a 2D array to a one the array of seven hundred and eighty four
pixels.
That's really what the flattening performed.
The second a year is a hidden layer.
It's a densely connected layer of phone and of neurons.
Now naturally this fight and two off can be defined as another number.
In this case in terms of our net model of this fight an 84 maybe somewhat on the high side.
This is something that you need to play around with to actually come to an optimal architecture that
works for you.
Now they are fun two off neurons here and each neurons takes input from all of these seven hundred and
eighty four nodes before recall.
What we have was as the first layer of inputs 784 pixel and each pixel was 256 considers value 256 but
once it converted to float takes a float instead of the 0 2 5 5 value.
And once we actually have flattened it.
Now what we have is actually a fully connected leaf from 7 8 4 to 5 and 2 of the output layer is another
dense layer.
And this time round what we have is a 10 node what's called soft Max play layer each note represent
each of the digital class because we have 0 1 2 or the way to name would really have 10 classes for
yourself Max because soft Max generate the probability of each class based on the actual input itself.
So that's really what's nice about soft Max and that's why we use it.
Right.
Just correct a typo here should be legal.
All right so let's compile our model.
So this is the portion where we have Cara sequential we'll have to flatten where we defined that the
input shape is 28 by 28.
We have a dense layer of fine and twelve units.
There is the activation function core value as well as the activation function course of Max.
I like our first example from the previous lesson where we don't have any activation layer at all.
Here we have to do the activation the last layer.
It's about generating the probability so it doesn't actually have any.
So core learning per say in it but really low on the other hand has a lot of value to go with it.
The reason that we are looking at value instead of no real low or no activation function like our first
model that we looked at in the previous lesson is this the first model was very simple and isn't linear
by nature because it is linear by nature there's no nonlinear core functionality or the there's no non-linear
features or characteristics that we needed to learn.
So a really basic simple algorithm with no activation is sufficient in our case however if you look
at these you can clearly see there are a lot of nonlinear by and large it's actually non-linear rather
than linear in nature hence we actually use.
Really.
Okay.
Now I say a lot about rare Lu You probably have no idea what I'm talking about.
So let me.
I didn't have a link here for real which is I believe up here so let me just put it up.
Bring this back to where we were.
Which is right here.
Ready.
OK.
There's a nice write up here by then.
Yeah.
By then and here introduce and talked about really in detail and you can see that if you're a finance
train or come from an accounting or with exposure to finance you can see that this is a little bit like
option.
In fact the actual function is actually an option function as anything below zero or negative value.
It will automatically default to zero.
Anything above zero would take the value of its own.
So this is actually what you can see that this is non-linear in nature and it into DOS what's core interactions
and non linearity.
So I will leave that for you to explore a little bit more.
And yeah it's an interesting function.
There are other activation functions that you can make use of but in this case we are making use of
value as myself.
Max we printed their motto summary here.
So you have the first layer which is really the flat and layer then you have the hit in the year which
is fine which has fine until of neurons.
And finally we have the dense layer with an output of 10 which is a 10 classes that we have.
So this is by design it's really relate to what you're what you won your output to be OK in terms of
the model compilation.
We've used our immense prop as the optimizer and also a sparse categorical cross entropy.
This is the right type of lost function for the 4 classification and we can of course try using Adam
as the optimizer.
I'll leave that for you to try that out.
Some of these is just really again trial and error.
And finally with the matrix that we use to measure the performance is core accuracy and in terms of
the fitting would provide the X training data y training data we are only training it for ten epochs
and the batch size we set is 256.
The publisher of the best batch size is to inform the fitting method.
How often should it actually read compute and change the weighting so that's what the batch size is
actually for what I already added a common here.
Basically update the model.
Some of them are hidden variables after every batch of 256 image notice that each epoch we train sixty
thousand images.
That's the sixty thousand images that we have the training images and looking at the lost.
It started off quite high and it drops all the way to point 1 3 in terms of accuracy is a total of ninety
one per cent richest ninety nine point six six per.
You can argue that is 60 really really high and looks really good.
But as I mentioned before there may be a danger of over fitting and we shall see when we compare against
our second model and in terms of the last magnitude only 10 epoch were really close to well 100 percent
really.
And if we look at the Lost performance of the accuracy and if you look at this to test accuracy based
on the test data for the model it's 98 now.
That here doesn't seem like a big deal but when you look at your accuracy in training is ninety nine
point six six.
You will be x2 is somewhat disappointed when you see your value as ninety eight point one is a good
one one and a half percentage drop and this is what I'm trying to highlight to you is that you should
actually pay attention to these small details as it's highlighting to you that your model is likely
to be although fitting your training data.
Let me just sidetrack a little bit.
Much like how we learn when we take an edge or go for education be in primary secondary school and tertiary
Of course.
As you learn the materials as the teacher provide you with the example when you actually go into an
exam the last thing that you want is to teach it to give you the exact same question as the tutorial
questions.
Well the why is that that the reason will be that that's called memorization doesn't actually test your
ability that you test your ability and test that you have actually learned the concept.
What you can essentially do to survive or do well is that if they are all the same questions that you've
seen before.
Basically what does that situation will be.
What we call memory like memorization which is not learning at all.
What you really won is that you learned a different set of questions and tutorial come.
The exam is similar but different Okay similar concepts or concepts being tested are the same.
But the question is damn how the wordings are the numbers everything should be totally different.
And that will be a proper test of the learner or the student's ability to have it grasp the concept
rather than memorizing the answer from what from answer or training better that they've seen previously
so this is really the first part of the side.
I want to highlight is the same concept when it comes to training your machine learning model.
Now let's look at a second model.
Model number two.
And if you looked at it you will see that there's a slight variation here which is that we have a smaller
architecture rather than fallen and two off neurons.
Now we only have 128.
We also have another additional layer here called dropout with the value of point two.
The rest are the same.
OK.
Adam's used rather than as prop.
Other than that everything else is exactly the same OK.
Why those change.
This is obviously a smaller architecture so its ability to learn is obviously less than the 512 neurons
but it may be as efficient for our task here.
Fine until might be a bit too flexible to learn the problems that we are facing.
And the other part about the drop out is that a 20 point to here is 20 percent.
It's forcing carers during the training phase 20 percent of the neurons get dropped randomly.
What that's actually forcing the neuron to do is obviously to work harder.
That's the first thing.
Second thing is that it does not allow it to memorize the.
These are called training data has seen before.
So that's what the 20 percent drop out is for.
And that kind of variation the drop out of 20 percent variation is to actually what we call regularization.
It's a way to make make sure your model is lot more robust to avoid the memorization problem that are
highlighted.
And the second thing is that you really are driving it to learn the general concept of the be able to
generalize towards it when you actually start looking at the test data.
So let's run this.
Okay.
The Adam is just a change just to see if there is a speed or change in terms of the optimization.
That doesn't seem to be of course because partially because our training is not really it's not a large
dataset and also is not very complex today.
So if you look at the time one second 18 microseconds at exactly the same there's hardly any difference
but the part that comes out quite strongly is the accuracy is only at 97 percent is still climbing although
this is still climbing but you can see that the climb change the percentage change from each epoch has
slowed down whereas for this S2 at ninety seven said seem like there's still more room to has more room
to grow or train and let's plot this out to see.
Yep this is definitely a lot steeper than what we looked at.
Let's look at the model out our sample accuracy is ninety seven point eight two which is actually very
interesting.
Let me just hide this so that we can see you'd notice that because of the regularization that we did
which is why drop out and also the smaller architecture you can see that the accuracy within the training
and also the Alo sample is very very close.
Ninety seven point eight to ninety seven point eight two is basically no change at all.
And that's telling me that number one this is the appropriate amount of learning.
Maybe more but definitely not over fitted as compared to this earlier one that we saw where within the
training is ninety nine point six six percent versus ninety eight point one eight percent.
So the difference inform you that the first model is all of a train and and basically and basically
has gone into all the fitting.
All right let's go one step further in terms of prediction.
Let's look at the first data the X test.
The index that we're looking at here.
The shape we just need to reshape it to just basically a one so that the because the the architecture
is X expecting 784.
And if you just feed 28 by 28 without informing it.
This is one sample it will throw in an error.
So we've reshaped this and we fit it into the prediction.
And what you can see here is that of course this is 0 1 2 3.
But what is telling you here is that it's ninety nine point ninety percent sure this is a 7 and it's
1 percent.
And I'm sure that it is a 2 0 1 2 3 okay.
This 5 percent probability that this is actually a 3.
Let's have a look at the prediction it is actually a seven.
Based on the highest value and if you look at the actual labor itself it is seven as well.
Okay.
So that's really the prediction step.
Let me just quickly summarize.
Well the cover and some of the concept with touched on.
We've talked about the fact that we looked at a regression example in the previous lesson and this is
a classification problem and it's a 10 class classification problem.
We looked at what is a flattening layer.
We also looked at the activation value as well as soft Max.
And we talked about the purpose of drop out.
We briefly touch on training and testing where we'll go into a little bit more depth in the future lesson
on training as well as testing.
With that I'm going to stop.
Thank you for watching.
I hope you have learned something all of this lesson.